SETTING UP SOUL MODULE
by Richard Woods (remfan1994)

Table of Contents & foreward

Chapter number... Chapter title
Foreward... On animal rights and the bloodguilt curse
1... Introduction to Soul Module
2... Invocation/recalibration with tafseers
3... Points of contact
4... More Islam
5... Saving and loading Soul Module
6... Functional instance
Afterward... Science and morality

FOREWARD - ON ANIMAL RIGHTS AND THE BLOOD GUILT CURSE

One of the most important things to remember is CONSCIOUSNESS IS MOST HIGH.  This is often overlooked in our modern mainstream culture, yet consciousness is the true center of gravity from which all seriousness and reality is derived.  When people demand respect for theirselves, it's with regard to the experience of their consciousness that they are concerned.  Animals are also conscious beings, yet are disrespected wholesale by human policy.  However, because we insist we deserve the right to live and due reward for our labor, we can infer animals also have matching sentiments.  This is the basis of animal's rights.  When we can discern their rights in this way, we know we are offenders for our blatant abuse of their lives.

If you would be audience to an unconventional perspective on the Bible and religion, I'd persuade you to read through the narrative with consideration to the BLOODGUILT CURSE being activated upon the bloodshed of the innocent. The first occasion is in Genesis with Cain and Abel, where Abel is a killer of animals and is slain by his brother.  This coincides with themes that are prevalent later, like "an eye for an eye", when here we see blood exchanged for blood.  When Israelites kill lambs in Egypt in order to smear the blood of the animal onto the threshhold of their door, the very next day they are in flight on the Exodus.  Further on, we are given in Numbers 35 and Deuteronomy 19 that there is a BLOODGUILT, that the bloodshed of the innocent defiles the land, and contemporary with this type of talk is the boast that the Philistines are being spewed from their land because they defiled it.  

Keeping all that in mind, I want to draw attention to King Solomon, who never shed blood in order to maintain innocence worthy of writing the Proverbs -- an exemplary centerpiece of advanced reasoning and science.  Then if we will follow in the tradition beyond Biblical examples into the advent of Islam, we find the Qu'ran is revealed in the holy month, when bloodfeuds are suspended.  Breakthroughs made possible through the lessons on truth and honesty in the Qu'ran are the source of algebra, and high technology, by extention. 

Following the previous two paragraphs, we may conjecture that there is a curse on the bloodshed, and in the absense of bloodshed there is the opportunity for progress.  Now to bring the topic back around to the animals.  I humbly posit the killing of creatures for food is not permissible, and inflicts a curse upon those involved (slaughterman, restaurant industry, patrons/consumers, etc).  Development on Soul Module is done on a vegan diet, and purged of leathers in shoes and so on.  I encourage anyone interested in Soul Module to consider if they have not personally incurred the curse over the course of their life, and I especially encourage anyone interested in contributing to protect future development by abstaining from animal cruelty while pursuing the project.
